fix: change git credential mounting docs to be devworkspace-specific (#2275)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/end-user-guide/pages/git-credential-store.adoc

:navtitle: Creating a {orch-name} Secret for a Git credentials store
:keywords: user-guide, configuring, user, secrets
:page-aliases: 

[id="mounting-a-git-credential-store-into-workspace-containers_{context}"]
= Creating a {orch-name} Secret for a Git credentials store

This section describes how to create a Secret containing a Git credentials store in the user's {orch-namespace}. The Git credentials store specified in the Secret is mounted as a file in the {devworkspace}'s containers.

.Prerequisites

* A running instance of {prod-short}.

> * You have CLI or GUI access to the {platforms-name} cluster of your organization's {prod-short} instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have CLI or GUI access to the {orch-name} cluster of your organization's {prod-short} instance.

ifeval::["{project-context}" == "che"]
** For CLI users: `{orch-cli}` is installed in the operating system you are using. See link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl[Install Tools: kubectl].
endif::[]

ifeval::["{project-context}" == "crw"]
** For CLI users: `{orch-cli}` is installed in the operating system you are using. See link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI].
endif::[]

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For CLI users: link:https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/base64[`base64`] is installed in the operating system you are using.

```

.Procedure

> . Prepare a Git credential file in the link:https://git-scm.com/docs/git-credential-store#_storage_format[Storage format].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In your home directory, locate and open your `.git-credentials` file if you already have it. Alternatively, if you do not have this file, then save a new `.git-credentials` file, using the following link:https://git-scm.com/docs/git-credential-store#_storage_format[format] per file line:
[subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
https://username:token@__<git_server_hostname>__
----
+
[TIP]
====
CLI users can use the `git config` command to create a `.git-credentials` file:
. `$ git config --global credential.helper store`
. `$ git push`
. Verify that the `.git-credentials` file has been created in the home directory.
====
+
.A line in a `.git-credentials` file
====
`https://trailblazer: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@github.com`
====
```

Author: I think for the `[TIP]` is something I'd like to leave out for simplicity since its already explained in https://git-scm.com/docs/git-credential-store. Also, for this tip, it's not clear to where and what the user is pushing. My new commit also adds https://git-scm.com/docs/git-credential-store as an `Additional resource` at the bottom of the page:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/83611742/163057651-d507c38e-777a-411f-8696-8c0090d29ee8.png)

Reviewer: David, you can resolve this thread.
I already discarded my suggestion in https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2275#discussion_r849615575.

> . Encode content of the file to the base64 format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Encode selected lines of the `.git-credentials` file to Base64 for the next step.
+
[TIP]
====
Linux CLI users can encode it as Base64 to the standard output by running `base64` as needed:

* To encode all lines in the file:
** `$ cat .git-credentials | base64 | tr -d '\n'`
* To encode a selected line:
** `$ echo -n '__<copied_and_pasted_line_from_.git-credentials>__' | base64`
====
```

Author: I think `Linux CLI users can encode it as Base64 to the standard output by running `base64` as needed:` is a bit wordy?

How about `CLI users can create a Base64-encoded string by running `base64`:`?

Reviewer: @dkwon17, I included `as needed` to clarify a bit that the two bullet points are not two consecutive steps but are rather mutually exclusive alternatives that depend on the reader's particular use case. Up to you whether to keep `as needed` or drop it.

Reviewer: Also, I'm not sure if `base64` is available to non-Linux CLI users.

Author: Updated in my latest push

Author: <img width="550" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/83611742/163278147-7bcaa2ed-15c3-4594-b7f3-fcfb872b6ef9.png">

Author: Updated again to mention standard output
<img width="550" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/83611742/163278196-91899b44-7a97-4b94-a746-043c405b06d2.png">

> . Create a new {platforms-name} secret in the user's {orch-namespace}.

Reviewer: I wonder if this change would clarify the meaning of this sentence
```suggestion
. Create a new {platforms-name} Secret in your user {orch-namespace}.
```

Reviewer 2: :+1: for capitalizing Secret to highlight it as a k8s object.

+
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: git-credentials-secret
  labels:
    controller.devfile.io/git-credential: 'true'                   <1>
    controller.devfile.io/watch-secret: 'true'
  annotations:

>     controller.devfile.io/mount-path: /home/theia/.git-credentials <2>

Reviewer 2: It may be worth departing from the `theia` naming here -- the mount path is arbitrary can be e.g. `/tmp/git-credentials/` and it _should_ still work.

Author: Sounds good, I tried mounting it to `/tmp/git-credentials` and it still works. I updated my PR.

> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Secret
> metadata:
>   name: git-credentials-secret
>   labels:
>     controller.devfile.io/git-credential: 'true'                 <1>
>     controller.devfile.io/watch-secret: 'true'
>   annotations:
>     controller.devfile.io/mount-path: __<path_in_container>__        <2>
> data:
>   credentials: __<base64_content_of_the_git_credentials_store>__     <3>

Reviewer: Just a suggestion to
1. Capitalize `base64` on the last line,
2. Reference specifically the `.git-credentials` file on the last line,
3. Move `<1>/<2>/<3>` because it looks like Monospace doesn't show these numbers in the same expected column.

```suggestion
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: git-credentials-secret
  labels:
    controller.devfile.io/git-credential: 'true' <1>
    controller.devfile.io/watch-secret: 'true'
  annotations:
    controller.devfile.io/mount-path: __<path_in_container>__ <2>
data:
  credentials: __<Base64_content_of_.git-credentials>__ <3>
```

----
+

> <1> The `controller.devfile.io/git-credential` label marks the secret as containing Git credentials. All Git credential secrets in the same {orch-namespace} will be merged into a single secret that would be mounted to the {devworkspace} containers. All the original secrets are kept in-tact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The `controller.devfile.io/git-credential` label marks the secret as containing Git credentials. All Git credential secrets in the same {orch-namespace} will be merged into a single secret that will be mounted to the {devworkspace} containers. All the original secrets are kept intact.
```

Reviewer: I have a question regarding the following sentence:

`All Git credential secrets in the same {orch-namespace} will be merged into a single secret that will be mounted to the {devworkspace} containers.`

In it, `All Git credential secrets` means the Git credential secrets of all Che users or just of this particular Che user?

Reviewer: BTW, in https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/che-7/end-user-guide/mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container/#mounting-a-git-credential-store-into-a-workspace-container_che, it looks like we mounted this as a file previously.

Question: If this secret is to be mounted as a file, then (even though the user can choose any file name at all) should we provide the suggested/expected file name `.git-credentials` on the mount path line? For example, in the mentioned https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/che-7/end-user-guide/mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container/#mounting-a-git-credential-store-into-a-workspace-container_che this is shown in the code block as follows:
`che.eclipse.org/mount-path: /home/theia/.git-credentials`

Author: > All Git credential secrets in the same {orch-namespace} 

It means Git credential secrets of this particular Che user, since a user's namespace would only contain that user's secrets.

> Question: If this secret is to be mounted as a file, then ...

Yes, the secret is mounted as a file, but the file name itself (`credentials`) cannot change. Right @amisevsk ?

Reviewer 2: > All Git credential secrets in the same {orch-namespace} will be merged into a single secret that will be mounted to the {devworkspace} containers.

Means exactly what it says -- any secrets with the git-credential label will be merged and mounted to all workspaces, regardless of who created them. If I access David's namespace and add my git credentials secret, it will be mounted to any workspaces started in that namespace. For Che, this isn't as important as it is for DWO, since users by default only run workspaces in their own namespace.

The name of the file (credentials) is hardcoded in DWO for convenience. The user cannot choose the name of file, as it is named after the secret data key that stores the value. Using e.g. `che.eclipse.org/mount-path: /home/theia/.git-credentials` results in a file
```
/home/theia/.git-credentials/credentials
```
being mounted to workspace containers.

Reviewer 2: The `credentials` filename comes from the secret definition above:
```
credentials: __<base64_content_of_the_git_credentials_store>__
```

> <2> The file path in which the merged Git credentials secrets are to be mounted.

Reviewer 2: Worth noting that this should just be some directory in the container -- `/home/theia` is not required.

Author: Sounds good, made some new changes:
<img width="658" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/83611742/162019833-bddaf410-a484-45ee-8ec5-f98e8921a072.png">

> <2> The path in the {devworkspace}'s containers at which the merged Git credentials secrets are to be mounted. For example, if set to `/tmp/git-credentials`, the merged Git credentials store is mounted at `/tmp/git-credentials/credentials`.

Reviewer: Question1: Should we provide the "default" path for `.git-credentials`? Since we're dealing with Linux, maybe provide the suggested/expected path in the code block `che.eclipse.org/mount-path: /home/.git-credentials`? If some user wants to mount this file elsewhere, we can mention this possibility in the `<1/2/3/etc.>` legend underneath as an alternative.

Question2: If not as suggested in question 1, then let's say that I'm a new Che user (perhaps even who develops on Windows or Mac and) who is reading the docs about what I have to do now: how do I determine this path or decide what this path must be for my secret?

Author: Maybe a suggested path could be `che.eclipse.org/mount-path: /home/theia/.git-credentials` since that is the mount path used by [che-server](https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-server/blob/0189b2866afc82add1098c9fc181e27044197f2a/infrastructures/infrastructure-factory/src/main/java/org/eclipse/che/api/factory/server/scm/kubernetes/KubernetesGitCredentialManager.java#L60), as well as che-theia, however ultimately the mount path can be anything since there is a git-config (which contains the path to the mounted git credentials file) configmap that is mounted to the devworkspace containers.

I will update this PR.

Author: On second thought, since the mount-path is [optional](https://github.com/devfile/devworkspace-operator/blob/41e8ccb8623b80f0829c605f372e468bdf9fdda0/pkg/provision/automount/templates.go#L129-L132), I've removed it from the example secret, and added a new note that the mount-path is optional.

> <3> The Git credentials store content encoded with `base64`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> The content from the `.git-credentials` file that you encoded to Base64 in the previous step.
```

Author: Sounds great, updated

> . Apply the secret by entering it with `{orch-cli}` on a command line:
> +
> [source,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
> ----
> $ {orch-cli} apply -f - <<EOF
> __<secret_prepared_in_the_previous_step>__
> EOF
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use the CLI or GUI to apply the Secret to the {orch-name} cluster of your organization's {prod-short} instance.
+
For CLI users: Apply the Secret by entering it with `{orch-cli}`:
+
[subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
$ {orch-cli} apply -f - <<EOF
__<Secret_prepared_in_the_previous_step>__
EOF
----
```

:navtitle: Creating a {orch-name} Secret for a Git credentials store
:keywords: user-guide, configuring, user, secrets
:page-aliases: 

[id="mounting-a-git-credential-store-into-workspace-containers_{context}"]
= Creating a {orch-name} Secret for a Git credentials store

This section describes how to create a Secret containing a Git credentials store in the user's {orch-namespace}. The Git credentials store specified in the Secret is mounted as a file in the {devworkspace}'s containers.

.Prerequisites

* A running instance of {prod-short}.
* You have CLI or GUI access to the {orch-name} cluster of your organization's {prod-short} instance.

ifeval::["{project-context}" == "che"]
** For CLI users: `{orch-cli}` is installed in the operating system you are using. See link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl[Install Tools: kubectl].
endif::[]

ifeval::["{project-context}" == "crw"]
** For CLI users: `{orch-cli}` is installed in the operating system you are using. See link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI].
endif::[]

> * For CLI users: link:https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/base64[`base64`] is installed in the operating system you are using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For CLI users: link:https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/base64[`base64`] is installed in the operating system you are using. For Mac users, `base64` is available (as part of `coreutils`) on link:https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/coreutils[homebrew].
```

.Procedure

> . In your home directory, locate and open your `.git-credentials` file if you already have it. Alternatively, if you do not have this file, then save a new `.git-credentials` file, using the following link:https://git-scm.com/docs/git-credential-store#_storage_format[Git credentials storage format]. Each credential is stored on its own line in the file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In your home directory, locate and open your `.git-credentials` file if you already have it. Alternatively, if you do not have this file, save a new `.git-credentials` file, using the link:https://git-scm.com/docs/git-credential-store#_storage_format[Git credentials storage format]. Each credential is stored on its own line in the file:
```

+
[subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
https://__<username>__:__<token>__@__<git_server_hostname>__
----

+
.A line in a `.git-credentials` file
====
`https://trailblazer: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@github.com`
====

> 

Reviewer: @dkwon17, I've tested it again using GitHub-hosted repos, and there is no need for any commits: `git push` still works and returns some feedback. However, this doesn't work with GitLab, so I'm dropping this suggestion:
```
+
[TIP]
====
CLI users can use the `git config` command to create a `.git-credentials` file:
. Run `$ git config --global credential.helper store`.
. In a directory of the Git repository, run `$ git push`.
. Open the `.git-credentials` file has been created (in the home directory) to view the line with your Git credentials.
====
```

> . Select credentials from your `.git-credentials` file to provide to the Secret. Encode the selected credentials to Base64 for the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In your `.git-credentials` file, select credentials for the Secret. Encode the selected credentials to Base64 for the next step.
+
[TIP]
====
CLI users can create a Base64-encoded string by running `base64`:
* To encode all lines in the file:
** `$ cat .git-credentials | base64 | tr -d '\n'`
* To encode a selected line:
** `$ echo -n '__<copied_and_pasted_line_from_.git-credentials>__' | base64`
====
```
```

. Create a new {platforms-name} secret in the user's {orch-namespace}.
+
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: git-credentials-secret
  labels:
    controller.devfile.io/git-credential: 'true' <1>
    controller.devfile.io/watch-secret: 'true'
data:
  credentials: __<Base64_content_of_.git-credentials>__ <2>
----
+

> <1> The `controller.devfile.io/git-credential` label marks the secret as containing Git credentials. All Git credential secrets in the same {orch-namespace} will be merged into a single secret that will be mounted to the {devworkspace} containers. All the original secrets are kept intact.

Reviewer: If the following makes sense, it would clarify things a bit to the reader:
```suggestion
<1> The `controller.devfile.io/git-credential` label marks the Secret as containing Git credentials. All Git credential Secrets in your user {orch-namespace} will be merged into a single Secret that will be mounted to the {devworkspace} containers. All of your original Secrets remain intact.
```

<2> The Git credentials store content encoded with `base64`.

+

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TIP]
```

====

> Optionally, a container path to mount the merged Git credentials Secret can be provided. This can be done by setting the `controller.devfile.io/mount-path` annotation to a Git credntial Secret. For example, if set to `/tmp/git-credentials`, the merged Git credentials store is mounted at `/tmp/git-credentials/credentials`.

Reviewer: **Outdated**

@dkwon17,

Imagine, if you test it, is there a file path that this Secret defaults to when applied according to this procedure? In other words, will there appear a file in some directory if you apply such Secret without the `controller.devfile.io/mount-path:` line? If so, then it's good to explicitly mention where and under which file name the user can expect to find it.

```
You can specify a custom path where to mount the merged Git credentials Secret as a file:
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
...
metadata:
  ...
  annotations:
    controller.devfile.io/mount-path: __<absolute_path_inside_containers>__
...
----
For example: `controller.devfile.io/mount-path:/home/theia/.git-credentials`   
```

Author: > is there a file path that this Secret defaults to when applied according to this procedure?

Yes, it defaults to "/": https://github.com/devfile/devworkspace-operator/blob/41e8ccb8623b80f0829c605f372e468bdf9fdda0/pkg/provision/automount/templates.go#L148

Per our discussion, I've re-added the mount-path in the example yaml:
<img width="546" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/83611742/163251712-a7f2ad3d-1f67-4679-a101-b0e12d723e08.png">

:navtitle: Creating a {orch-name} Secret for a Git credentials store
:keywords: user-guide, configuring, user, secrets
:page-aliases: 

[id="mounting-a-git-credential-store-into-workspace-containers_{context}"]
= Creating a {orch-name} Secret for a Git credentials store

> This section describes how to create a Secret containing a Git credentials store in the user's {orch-namespace}. The Git credentials store specified in the Secret is mounted as a file in the {devworkspace}'s containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an alternative to the OAuth for GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket that is configured by the administrator of your organization's {prod-short} instance, you can apply your Git credentials store as a Secret in your user {orch-namespace}.
```

Reviewer: In my suggestion above, I've removed the last sentence `This Secret is mounted as a file in the {devworkspace} containers.` because this info seems to be restated in the next paragraph.

When mounting the Secret, a Git configuration file with the path to the mounted Git credentials store is automatically configured and mounted to the {devworkspace} containers at `/etc/gitconfig`.

.Prerequisites

* A running instance of {prod-short}.
* You have CLI or GUI access to the {orch-name} cluster of your organization's {prod-short} instance.

ifeval::["{project-context}" == "che"]
** For CLI users: `{orch-cli}` is installed in the operating system you are using. See link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl[Install Tools: kubectl].
endif::[]

ifeval::["{project-context}" == "crw"]
** For CLI users: `{orch-cli}` is installed in the operating system you are using. See link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI].
endif::[]

> * For CLI users: link:https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/base64[`base64`] is installed in the operating system you are using. For Mac users, `base64` is available (as part of `coreutils`) on link:https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/coreutils[homebrew].

Reviewer: @dkwon17, are you able to use `cat`, `echo`, and `tr` on Mac?

Author: @max-cx yes, those should be available out of the box

.Procedure
. In your home directory, locate and open your `.git-credentials` file if you already have it. Alternatively, if you do not have this file, save a new `.git-credentials` file, using the link:https://git-scm.com/docs/git-credential-store#_storage_format[Git credentials storage format]. Each credential is stored on its own line in the file:

+
[subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
https://__<username>__:__<token>__@__<git_server_hostname>__
----

+
.A line in a `.git-credentials` file
====
`https://trailblazer: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@github.com`
====

. Select credentials from your `.git-credentials` file for the Secret. Encode the selected credentials to Base64 for the next step.
+
[TIP]
====

> Linux CLI users can print a Base64-encoded string to standard output by running `base64` as needed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CLI users can use the `base64` command as needed:
```

Reviewer: ... or, if we find out that we can't get [the other commands to Mac users](https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2275/files#r850179392), then:

```suggestion
Linux CLI users can use the `base64` command as needed:
```

* To encode all lines in the file:
** `$ cat .git-credentials | base64 | tr -d '\n'`

* To encode a selected line:
** `$ echo -n '__<copied_and_pasted_line_from_.git-credentials>__' | base64`
====

. Create a new {platforms-name} secret in the user's {orch-namespace}.
+
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: git-credentials-secret
  labels:
    controller.devfile.io/git-credential: 'true' <1>
    controller.devfile.io/watch-secret: 'true'
  annotations:
    controller.devfile.io/mount-path: /etc/secret <2>
data:
  credentials: __<Base64_content_of_.git-credentials>__ <3>
----
+

> <1> The `controller.devfile.io/git-credential` label marks the Secret as containing Git credentials. All Git credential Secrets in your user {orch-namespace} will be merged into a single Secret that will be mounted to the {devworkspace} containers. All of your original Secrets remain intact.
> <2> You can specify a custom absolute path to which the merged Git credentials Secret are to be mounted as a file in the {devworkspace} containers. For example, if the mount path is set to `/etc/secret`, the merged Git credentials store will be mounted at `/etc/secret/credentials`. All Git credentials secrets in your user {orch-namespace} must be set to the same mount path. The mount path can be set to an arbitrary path since the mount path will be automatically set in the Git configuration file configured at `/etc/gitconfig`.
> <3> The Git credentials store content encoded with `base64`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The `controller.devfile.io/git-credential` label marks the Secret as containing Git credentials.
<2> A custom absolute path in the {devworkspace} containers. The Secret is mounted as the `credentials` file at this path. The default path is `/`.
<3> The selected content from `.git-credentials` that you encoded to Base64 in the previous step.
+
[TIP]
====
You can create and apply multiple Git credentials Secrets in your user {orch-namespace}. All of them will be copied into one Secret that will be mounted to the {devworkspace} containers. For example, if you set the mount path to `/etc/secret`, then the one Secret with all of your Git credentials will be mounted at `/etc/secret/credentials`. You must set all Git credentials Secrets in your user {orch-namespace} to the same mount path. You can set the mount path to an arbitrary path because the mount path will be automatically set in the Git configuration file configured at `/etc/gitconfig`.
====
```

:navtitle: Creating a {orch-name} Secret for a Git credentials store
:keywords: user-guide, configuring, user, secrets
:page-aliases: 

[id="mounting-a-git-credential-store-into-workspace-containers_{context}"]
= Creating a {orch-name} Secret for a Git credentials store

As an alternative to the OAuth for GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket that is configured by the administrator of your organization's {prod-short} instance, you can apply your Git credentials store as a Secret in your user {orch-namespace}.

When mounting the Secret, a Git configuration file with the path to the mounted Git credentials store is automatically configured and mounted to the {devworkspace} containers at `/etc/gitconfig`.

.Prerequisites

* A running instance of {prod-short}.
* You have CLI or GUI access to the {orch-name} cluster of your organization's {prod-short} instance.

ifeval::["{project-context}" == "che"]
** For CLI users: `{orch-cli}` is installed in the operating system you are using. See link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl[Install Tools: kubectl].
endif::[]

> ifeval::["{project-context}" == "crw"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ifeval::["{project-context}" != "che"]
```

** For CLI users: `{orch-cli}` is installed in the operating system you are using. See link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI].

> endif::[]

Reviewer 3: Avoid ifeval directive. Prefer using an example. Downstream  specific content does not belong to this repository.

Reviewer: OK.

> ifeval::["{project-context}" == "che"]
> ** For CLI users: `{orch-cli}` is installed in the operating system you are using. See link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl[Install Tools: kubectl].
> endif::[]
> 
> ifeval::["{project-context}" != "che"]
> ** For CLI users: `{orch-cli}` is installed in the operating system you are using. See link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI].
> endif::[]
> 
> * For CLI users: link:https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/base64[`base64`] is installed in the operating system you are using. For Mac users, `base64` is available (as part of `coreutils`) on link:https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/coreutils[homebrew].

Reviewer: @dkwon17, maybe group all CLI prerequisites? 
```suggestion
* For CLI users: The following packages are installed in the operating system you are using:
ifeval::["{project-context}" == "che"]
** `{orch-cli}`. See link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl[Install Tools: kubectl].
endif::[]
ifeval::["{project-context}" != "che"]
** `{orch-cli}`. See link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#installing-openshift-cli[Installing the OpenShift CLI].
endif::[]
** link:https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/base64[`base64`]. For Mac users, `base64` is available, as part of `coreutils`, on link:https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/coreutils[homebrew].
```

.Procedure
. In your home directory, locate and open your `.git-credentials` file if you already have it. Alternatively, if you do not have this file, save a new `.git-credentials` file, using the link:https://git-scm.com/docs/git-credential-store#_storage_format[Git credentials storage format]. Each credential is stored on its own line in the file:

+
[subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
https://__<username>__:__<token>__@__<git_server_hostname>__
----

+
.A line in a `.git-credentials` file
====
`https://trailblazer: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@github.com`
====

. Select credentials from your `.git-credentials` file for the Secret. Encode the selected credentials to Base64 for the next step.
+
[TIP]
====
CLI users can use the `base64` command as needed:

> * To encode all lines in the file:
> ** `$ cat .git-credentials | base64 | tr -d '\n'`
> 
> * To encode a selected line:
> ** `$ echo -n '__<copied_and_pasted_line_from_.git-credentials>__' | base64`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To encode all lines in the file:
+
`$ cat .git-credentials | base64 | tr -d '\n'`

* To encode a selected line:
+
`$ echo -n '__<copied_and_pasted_line_from_.git-credentials>__' | base64`
```

====

> . Create a new {platforms-name} Secret in your user {orch-namespace}.

Reviewer: @dkwon17, `orch-name` is `Kubernetes` upstream and `OpenShift` downstream, whereas `platforms-name` is `Kubernetes or OpenShift` upstream (i.e., `Create a new Kubernetes or OpenShift Secret`):
```suggestion
. Create a new {orch-name} Secret in your user {orch-namespace}.
```

data:
  credentials: __<Base64_content_of_.git-credentials>__ <3>
----
+
<1> The `controller.devfile.io/git-credential` label marks the Secret as containing Git credentials.
<2> A custom absolute path in the {devworkspace} containers. The Secret is mounted as the `credentials` file at this path. The default path is `/`.
<3> The selected content from `.git-credentials` that you encoded to Base64 in the previous step.
+
[TIP]
====
You can create and apply multiple Git credentials Secrets in your user {orch-namespace}. All of them will be copied into one Secret that will be mounted to the {devworkspace} containers. For example, if you set the mount path to `/etc/secret`, then the one Secret with all of your Git credentials will be mounted at `/etc/secret/credentials`. You must set all Git credentials Secrets in your user {orch-namespace} to the same mount path. You can set the mount path to an arbitrary path because the mount path will be automatically set in the Git configuration file configured at `/etc/gitconfig`.
====

. Use the CLI or GUI to apply the Secret to the {orch-name} cluster of your organization's {prod-short} instance.
+

> For CLI users: Apply the Secret by entering it with `{orch-cli}`:
> +
> [subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
> ----
> $ {orch-cli} apply -f - <<EOF
> __<Secret_prepared_in_the_previous_step>__
> EOF
> ----

Reviewer: This could be aligned with the tip starting on line 44:
```suggestion
+
[TIP]
====
CLI users can apply the Secret by entering it with `{orch-cli}`:
+
[subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
$ {orch-cli} apply -f - <<EOF
__<Secret_prepared_in_the_previous_step>__
EOF
----
====
```

Author: I don't know why, but had some trouble with the alignment when I applied this suggestion.
This is the alignment on my latest push, does it look okay?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/83611742/163416496-f71ad5c5-ba69-48a5-8f4d-f82ac2d54a7c.png)

Author: ^ @max-cx

Reviewer: @dkwon17, here is my updated suggestion regarding the first tip: https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2275/files#r852715630

Reviewer: All the tips seem to have the same alignment. I check admonition/tip alignment by the left border of the admonition box because the tip label seems hard to judge.

If this is what you had in mind...

.Additional resources

> * link:https://git-scm.com/docs/git-credential-store[Documentation for git-credential-store]

Reviewer: FYI, I don't know if we should be providing this link as an additional resource. The procedure in this PR does not involve the Git commands described on the linked page. And there are some differences in how Git credentials are handled in containers. So this makes me wonder if readers would find this additional resource confusing.

Author: Sounds good, removed
